Ingredients for Suya Spice
5 tablespoons crushed Kuli Kuli (110g)
5 tablespoons ginger powder (75g)
2 tablespoons cayenne pepper flakes (6g)
10 strands of African Negro Pepper known as Uda in Igbo
1 small stock cube (4g)
½ teaspoon salt
Notes on the ingredients

These ingredients are all you need to make your suya spice, no more, no less. :)
Kuli Kuli (also Kwuli Kwuli or Kwili Kwili) is groundnut (peanut) cake. 

Making Kuli Kuli
Grind roasted groundnuts
Squeeze out the oil from them with a paper towel or napkin
Press them into any shape you want and deepfry them in vegetable oil till brown and dry. 

Never use roasted groundnuts for your Nigerian Suya spice 
without first of all processing it into Kuli Kuli because there's too much oil in peanuts 
and this will form a paste instead of powder when you grind it.
Dry ground ginger is merely ginger that has been dried and ground into powder. 
You can buy it from spice shops and supermarkets anywhere in the world. 
The dry ginger should always be the same measurement (in tablespoons, not grams) 
as the Kuli Kuli. 
So if you want to make a large quantity of the suya spice, 
use the same cup/bowl/container used to measure the crushed kuli kuli
to measure the ground ginger.
Cayenne pepper flakes are the skin of dry cayenne pepper. 
Just rub dry cayenne pepper in a crucible to free them from the seeds, 
then separate the flakes from the seeds. 
The listed quantity of the flakes gives the suya spice its orange colour 
and the right amount of spiciness. 
If you add too much of these flakes, 
the suya spice will be too spicy hot 
and will ruin the Nigerian suya you will make with the spice.
African Negro Pepper is known as Uda in Igbo, 
Eeru ( erun and Kanafuru?) in Yoruba and Chimba (kimba) in Hausa. 
You may be lucky to find this outside Nigeria. 
Its job is to bring out the trademark flavour of the suya spice. 
Without this ingredient, the suya spice will not be the same. 
Though I listed the quantities for the stock cube and salt, 
you should add these two to your taste.

Tools you need
Crushing tools
Sieve
Plastic bowls
Spice/Coffee grinder

Before you make the Suya Spice
Crush the Kuli Kuli with a mortar and pestle 
Or put in a plastic bag and crush with a blunt object. 
Crush the dry cayenne pepper in a mortar or any other rough container 
till the skin separates from the seeds. You don't need to pound it. 
When done, put in a flat tray or plate, 
toss so that the flakes will move to one side then pick them out. 
Later, you can grind the seeds and use them in other Nigerian recipes.
Break the African Negro Pepper into pieces and crush the stock cube.

Directions
Combine all the ingredients in a bowl.
Grind in small batches in the dry mill till they turn into powder. 
Any coffee grinder will do this job very well.
When done, sift the suya spice with a sieve 
to remove all fibre from the African Negro Pepper and ingredients that did not blend well.
Put the suya spice in plastic bags or containers and store in the freezer. 
It can last for years and still retain its taste and flavour.